The Color Quantizer

**Name**

Colorist (ColorList), **Huey** ("Hue"-lia Louise Dreyfus)
*SeekHue ('CQ')*


**High-level Product**

This web app will take image files, analyze the pixels to extract color values, and reorder these values into a "hue-map": a representation of existing colors sorted into hexadecimal order.


**Specific Functionality**

*Main Page*

The main page will act as the gallery page, displaying recent color analyses and a brief synopsis of the color analyzation process.

The header will contain links to the upload page, user sign in, and the library of painters' palettes I will be uploading to test the software and develop cross-palette comparisons.

*Upload Page*

This page will have a simple upload bar that lets users submit a variety of file formats to analyze. Users will be given two output options: the hue-map or a color wheel representing the distribution of given colors in the image.


**Data Model**

1. Image:
Each image will represent the source file submitted by a user or uploaded for testing/development of the app.

They will contain:
*Unique ID* -- signifying the User/Artist the image was uploaded/belongs to.
*Date/Time Stamp* -- there will be flexibility to represent time in year format for art work, or DD-MM-YYYY for users.

2. Hue-Map:
*Unique ID* -- signifying the User/Artist the image was uploaded/belongs to.

3. Color Wheel:
*Unique ID* -- signifying the User/Artist the image was uploaded/belongs to.


**Technical Components**

All image processing will be done in a Python module using Pillow to deconstruct and analyze images on an individual pixel basis. Separate Python modules, powered by Pillow and Python's Statistics modules, will reconstruct the pixel information into the hue-map, color wheel, and color timelines.

Source images and the translated deconstructions will be stored and retrieved via User/Artist ID-lookup using Django and SQL database.

Front-end HTML will be generated by Django templates with a fixed layout and style created in CSS. jQuery will provide interactivity including feedback during the sign in and upload processes. Javascript will be used to be used to visualize the various image transformations on the front-end.


**Schedule**

1. Python Image Modules to deconstruct and reconstruct data - medium - 3 days
2. Image and analysis database - medium - 2 days
3. HTML/CSS Front-End - medium - 2 days
4. Web Framework (Django) - hard - 2 days
5. Javascript visualizations - medium - 3 days
6. jQuery Interactivity - medium - 2 days


**Further Work**

*Additional Functionality*

1. User Sign-In / Profile Page:
Users will be able to sign in and view statistics about their uploads including past hue-maps, a personalized color wheel that represents their most uploaded colors, and a color timeline to track color changes over time.

2. Palette Library:
The Palette Library will contain color profiles from famous artists--my test data--including their most used colors, hue-maps of famous works, and a timeline of their color changes.


*Additional Data Models*

1. User Profile:
*Unique ID* -- signifying the User/Artist the image was uploaded/belongs to.

2. Library:
The library will contain one entry per User/Artist with a sum of all their source uploads, hue-maps, and color wheels/timelines.

*Color Wheel* -- composite of all User/Artist uploads/analyses
*Color Timeline* -- representation of Color Wheel data mapped to time.

Users will be able to search the library by artist, user name, or color.


*Pie-in-the-sky Ambitions*

If I am able to complete the basic parameters of my MVP and the aforementioned user profile/artist library systems, I want to attempt to implement a simple learning algorithm that will analyze the most frequently used colors of user profiles and cross reference these favorites with the global correlations of certain colors in the database.

If user x likes specific hues of green, and there is a strong correlation of other users enjoying that hue and a specific hue of red, I want to recommend the red hue to user x.
